Introduction to the Languages used 

JAVA

Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to 

have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to let 

application developers write once, and run anywhere (WORA), meaning that 

compiled Java code can run on all platforms that support Java without the need 

for recompilation. Java was first released in 1995 and is widely used for 

developing applications for desktop, web, and mobile devices. Java is known 

for its simplicity, robustness, and security features, making it a popular choice 

for enterprise-level applications. 

JAVA was developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems Inc in the 

year 1995 and later acquired by Oracle Corporation. It is a simple programming 

language. Java makes writing, compiling, and debugging programming easy. It 

helps to create reusable code and modular programs. Java is a class-based, 

object-oriented programming language and is designed to have as few 

implementation dependencies as possible.

A general-purpose programming language made for developers to write once

run anywhere that is compiled Java code can run on all platforms that support 

Java. Java applications are compiled to byte code that can run on any Java 

Virtual Machine. The syntax of Java is similar to c/c++.

History: Java’s history is very interesting. It is a programming language created 

in 1991. James Gosling, Mike Sheridan, and Patrick Naughton, a team of Sun 

engineers known as the Green team initiated the Java language in 1991.

Sun Microsystems released its first public implementation in 1996 as Java 1.0. 

It provides no-cost -run-times on popular platforms. Java1.0 compiler was rewritten in Java by Arthur Van Hoff to strictly comply with its specifications. 
With the arrival of Java 2, new versions had multiple configurations built for different types of platforms.

In 1997, Sun Microsystems approached the ISO standards body and later formalized Java, but it soon withdrew from the process. At one time, Sun made 
most of its Java implementations available without charge, despite their 
proprietary software status. Sun generated revenue from Java through the selling of licenses for specialized products such as the Java Enterprise System.
SQL (Structured Query Language)

o SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is used for storing and 

managing data in relational database management system (RDMS).

o It is a standard language for Relational Database System. It enables a user to 

create, read, update and delete relational databases and tables.

o All the RDBMS like MySQL, Informix, Oracle, MS Access and SQL Server 

use SQL as their standard database language.

o SQL allows users to query the database in a number of ways, using Englishlike statements.

Rules:

SQL follows the following rules:

o Structure query language is not case sensitive. Generally, keywords of SQL are written in uppercase.

o Statements of SQL are dependent on text lines. We can use a single SQL statement on one or multiple text line.

o Using the SQL statements, you can perform most of the actions in a database.
o SQL depends on tuple relational calculus and relational algebra.

SQL process:
When an SQL command is executing for any RDBMS, then the system figure out the best way to carry out the request and the SQL engine determines that how to interpret the task.
 In the process, various components are included. These components can be optimization Engine, Query engine, Query dispatcher, classic, etc.
o All the non-SQL queries are handled by the classic query engine, but SQL query engine won't handle logical files.
